.github/issue_template.md, before:

### Fill out information requested in this template, without doing so issue will be ignored & closed!

### Have you tried?

- [Searching through existing/closed issues](https://github.com/AdnanHodzic/auto-cpufreq/issues) to see if your bug has already been already submitted? 
- If installation failed with [auto-cpufreq-installer](https://github.com/AdnanHodzic/auto-cpufreq/#auto-cpufreq-installer),have you tried installing auto-cpufreq using [Snap package](https://github.com/AdnanHodzic/auto-cpufreq/#snap-store)?
- Have you tried [configuring auto-cpufreq](https://github.com/AdnanHodzic/auto-cpufreq/#configuring-auto-cpufreq)?
- Have you tried suggestions in [troubleshooting section](https://github.com/AdnanHodzic/auto-cpufreq#troubleshooting)?

### Error output:
```text
Add/paste error output in case of failed installation or other failing component
```
---

### System information:

Add/paste output of:

```
auto-cpufreq --debug
```

Also please be descriptive about the issue you're reporting, i.e: what you tried & what's the expected behaviour.

---

Commit message:

Add "auto-cpufreq genAI chatbot" to Readme & Issue template

.github/issue_template.md, after:

### Fill out information requested in this template, without doing so issue will be ignored & closed!

Before submitting an issue, it is strongly recommended to use the **[auto-cpufreq-genAI-chatbot](https://foolcontrol.org/?p=4903)** to get an immediate answer to your question.

### Have you tried?

- [Searching through existing/closed issues](https://github.com/AdnanHodzic/auto-cpufreq/issues) to see if your bug has already been already submitted? 
- If installation failed with [auto-cpufreq-installer](https://github.com/AdnanHodzic/auto-cpufreq/#auto-cpufreq-installer),have you tried installing auto-cpufreq using [Snap package](https://github.com/AdnanHodzic/auto-cpufreq/#snap-store)?
- Have you tried [configuring auto-cpufreq](https://github.com/AdnanHodzic/auto-cpufreq/#configuring-auto-cpufreq)?
- Have you tried suggestions in [troubleshooting section](https://github.com/AdnanHodzic/auto-cpufreq#troubleshooting)?

### Error output:
```text
Add/paste error output in case of failed installation or other failing component
```
---

### System information:

Add/paste output of:

```
auto-cpufreq --debug
```

Also please be descriptive about the issue you're reporting, i.e: what you tried & what's the expected behaviour.

---
